.TH ISOCMD 1 "September 2025" "Iso Commander 6.2.0" "Iso-Commander Manual"

.SH NAME
Iso Commander (isocmd) \- Command-line utility for managing .iso files and converting image formats.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Iso Commander (isocmd) is a command-line utility for managing .iso files and converting various image formats to .iso using asynchronous I/O operations.

.SH NON-INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
.TP
.B -v, --version
.br
Show program version.

.TP
.B --silent
.br
Suppress informational, error and warning output.

.TP
.B -d\<N\>
.br
Set max directory recursion depth when scanning for ISOs; default is -1 (unlimited).

.TP
.B mount
.br
Mount one or more ISO files or directories containing ISOs. Requires root.

.TP
.B umount, unmount
.br
Unmount ISO mount points. Without arguments or with "all", unmounts all under /mnt.  Requires root.

.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Mount specific ISOs:
.br
\fBisocmd /path/to/file1.iso /path/to/file2.iso mount\fR

.TP
Mount all ISOs within a directory:
.br
\fBisocmd /path/to/dir mount\fR

.TP
Mount all ISOs within a directory up to depth 2:
.br
\fBisocmd -d2 /path/to/dir mount\fR

.TP
Mount an ISO silently:
.br
\fBisocmd --silent /path/to/file.iso mount\fR

.TP
Unmount ISO mount points:
.br
\fBisocmd /mnt/iso_example /mnt/iso_other umount\fR

.TP
Unmount all ISO mount points:
.br
\fBisocmd all umount\fR

.TP
Unmount all ISO mount points silently:
.br
\fBisocmd --silent all umount\fR

.TP
Unmount an ISO mount point silently:
.br
\fBisocmd --silent /mnt/iso_example umount\fR

.SH BASIC CTRL SIGNALS
.TP
.B Ctrl + c
Cancel and clean up ongoing operations immediately.

.TP
.B Ctrl + d
Exit or break from loops, terminating input or sessions.

.TP
.B Ctrl + z
Suspend the process and move it to the background.

.SH UI INTERACTIVE OPTIONS AND FEATURES
.TP
.B ManageISO

Mount: Mounts .iso files under /mnt/_iso{name}. Requires root.

Umount: Unmounts .iso files. Requires root.

Delete/Move/Copy: Manages .iso files using native C++ calls.

Write: Writes .iso files to USB drives, retaining bootable status. Requires root.

.TP
.B Convert2ISO

Converts .bin, .img, .mdf, and .nrg files to .iso.

Ported from original C tools by Salvatore Santagati (mdf2iso), Grégory Kokanosky (nrg2iso), and Danny Kurniawan & Kerry Harris (ccd2iso).

.TP
.B ImportISO

Creates and updates an ISO database (max 1MB, ~10,000 entries).

Database location: ~/.local/share/isocmd/database/iso_commander_database.txt

.TP
.B Automatic Database Management

Automatically syncs database for deleted, moved, copied, or converted .iso files.

.TP
.B Built-in Filtering

Adaptive Incremental Filtering: Uppercase terms are case-sensitive; lowercase are not. Scope narrows with each iteration.

Supports two modes: 1)rapid (/name1;name2) and 2)regular (/)  with browsable history.

.SH NOTES

Partial conversions are deleted automatically.

Generated .iso files are automatically assigned to the current user.

Ranges and single numbers can be used simultaneously for list selections (e.g., 1-3 5 7-6).

Listed items can be marked as pending for processing with ; (e.g, 1-3 5 7-6;).

Write function checks USB devices for sufficient capacity and type.

.SH USAGE TIPS
.TP
.B Tab Completion

Press Tab once for path autocompletion, twice for listing files.

.TP
.B Important Keyboard Shortcuts

\fBCtrl+l\fR: Declutter screen and redraw the current line.

\fBCtrl+u\fR: Delete from cursor to the beginning of the line.

.TP
.B History

Folder paths and filter terms are saved in readline history.

History locations:

Folder paths: ~/.local/share/isocmd/database/iso_commander_path_database.txt

Filter terms: ~/.local/share/isocmd/database/iso_commander_filter_database.txt

Max entries: 100 (paths), 50 (filter terms).

.SH CONFIGURATION
.nf
The configuration file is located at \fI~/.config/isocmd/config\fR, using a key-value format with '=' as the separator.

.SS CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B auto_update
Controls automatic update behavior for ISO database. Auto-update runs in the background upon startup and scans any stored paths from readline history for .iso files.
.br
Values: off (disabled), on (enabled)
.br
Default: off
.TP
.B filenames_only
Controls directory path visibility in all lists except for the unmount list.
.br
Values: off (disabled), on (enabled)
.br
Default: off
.TP
.B pagination
Controls the maximum number of entries per listed page, unless disabled.
.br
Values: integer <= 0 (disabled), integer > 0 (enabled)
.br
Default: 25
.TP
.B conversion_lists
Sets the display format for conversion lists.
.br
Values: compact, full
.br
Default: compact
.TP
.B cp_mv_rm_list
Sets the display format for copy, move, and remove list.
.br
Values: compact, full
.br
Default: compact
.TP
.B mount_list
Sets the display format for mount list.
.br
Values: compact, full
.br
Default: compact
.TP
.B unmount_list
Sets the display format for unmount list.
.br
Values: compact, full
.br
Default: full
.TP
.B write_list
Sets the display format for write list.
.br
Values: compact, full
.br
Default: compact
.fi

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR readline (3)

.SH AUTHOR
Written by Eutychios Dimtsas (Siyia).

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to \fIeutychios23@gmail.com\fR.
